title: FCM-742-01
modified: 2016-01-31
tags: teaching, math
slug: FCM742-01
label: FCM742-01
authors: Evan Misshula
summary: Network Security

# Class info

<table border="2" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="6" rules="groups" frame="hsides">


<colgroup>
<col  class="org-left" />

<col  class="org-left" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td class="org-left">Class Number</td>
<td class="org-left">CSCI 742-01</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="org-left">&#xa0;</td>
<td class="org-left">Network Security</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="org-left">Instructor</td>
<td class="org-left">Evan Misshula</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="org-left">Credits</td>
<td class="org-left">3</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="org-left">Enrollment</td>
<td class="org-left">18</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="org-left">Semester</td>
<td class="org-left">Spring 2016</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# Introduction

Welcome to Network Security

> Being able to break security doesn’t make you a hacker anymore than
> being able to hotwire cars makes you an automotive engineer.
> ~Eric S. Raymond

Networks mean that an attacker can sit anywhere in the world and attack
your network.  In fact, in the jurisdiction in which she sits it may be
completely lawful to attack your network.  This class will give you the 
skills to monitor your own networks and thwart such attacks.

According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics the 2014 median pay for an
Information Security Analyst was 88,890 or $42.74 per hour with an expected 
growth in job opportunities of 18% (much faster than average).  The 
original summary is available here.

<http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/information-security-analysts.htm>

The class will be a success if some of these
tools make the rest of your career (research, government or
industrial) more productive and enjoyable.The syllabus will be updated
as the course progresses.  The schedule is not currently set and will
be starting to be updated soon. You are welcome (and encouraged) to
make your own recordings of the lectures.

# Location and Time

-   Where: Rm: 6.61, New Building, CUNY John Jay
-   When: Tuesdays 6.15 - 8.15pm

# Computers in the classroom

This is a hands on class.  You will be in front of a computer during
class throughout the semester.  Please feel free to use the computer
to take notes or use the class Etherpad to discuss the course
material, but do **not** use the computers for non-class related topics.

# What is the goal of the class?

-   Understand and identify major network protocols.
-   Be familiar with prominent current threats to network infrastructures.
-   Be able to explain and write code to exploit network protocols.
-   Understand the role psychology and economics play in the compromise of networks and systems
-   Be familiar with credible information sources for network security
-   Detect network attacks.
-   Craft packets with Scapy.

> If you think technology can solve your security problems, then you
> don’t understand the problems and you don’t understand the technology.
> ~Bruce Schnier

# Suggested Texts

-   Khan, Bilal. Cybersecurity Labs for the 21st Century. (forthcoming)
-   Jim Kurose and Keith Ross Computer Networking: A Top-Down
    Approach(6th Edition). Pearson (2013). ISBN-13: 978-0-13-285620-1
-   William Stallings. Cryptography and Network Security Principles and
    Practice (6th Edition). Prentice Hall (2014). ISBN-13:
    978-0-13-335469-0
-   Ross J. Anderson. 2008. Security Engineering: A Guide to Building
    Dependable Distributed Systems (2 ed.). Wiley Publishing. ([link](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~rja14/book.html))
-   Sanders, Chris, and Jason Smith. Applied network security
    monitoring: collection, detection, and analysis. Elsevier, 2013.

# What will be covered?

All of the technologies have been chosen to be readily available and
likely to be around for many years to come.  You will gain experience
with the following. We will go into depth on these topics.  You will 
not just be able to talk about these but will gain practice doing them.

Note: this is not the order that we will cover the material and we
might not get to all of these in class.

-   Passive Network Monitoring and Packet Forensics
    1.  Wireshark
    2.  Full Packet Capture
    3.  Session Data
    4.  Monitoring with ELK
    5.  The Windows Log
    6.  Snort and Oinkmaster
    7.  Squid

-   Active Network Reconnaissance and Packet Forgery
    1.  Port scanning and fingerprinting
    2.  Metasplooit
    3.  SCAPY
    4.  Covert channels
    5.  DMZs and Honypots

> The only truly secure system is one that is powered off, cast in a
> block of concrete and sealed in a lead-lined room with armed
> guards. ~Gene Spafford

# Surveys and public conversations

-   The class survey can be found at this [etherpad](https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/netsecsurveyquestions).

# Homework

-   The first lab is now available:
    -   [wireshark](../images/ch1.pdf)
    -   [full-packet-capture](../images/LAB2.pdf)

# Lecture Notes

-   [Kurose and Ross, Chapter 1](http://www.seas.gwu.edu/~cheng/6431/LecNotes/Chapter1.ppt)
-   [Kurose and Ross, Chapter 2](http://www-net.cs.umass.edu/kurose-ross-ppt-6e/)
-   [Kurose and Ross, Chapter 3](http://www-net.cs.umass.edu/kurose-ross-ppt-6e/Chapter_3_V6.01.ppt)
-   [Kurose and Ross, Chapter 8](http://www-net.cs.umass.edu/kurose-ross-ppt-6e/Chapter_8_V6.0.ppt)

# Grades

There will be weekly homework. The problems will be difficult. Successful
completion of all homework should guarantee a grade of 'A'. Be warned,
this is a demanding class.  The homework should generally take ten or so
hours.  The author of our primary text is Bilal Khan.  He was previously
a professor here.  Bilal has agreed to make himself available Saturday 
mornings. You should take advantage of the resource. When you email him, 
make the subject line.

[FCM742 - Lab #X]

# Lab submission

Many of the labs have some type of answer to question posed.  I expect
you to expand on that answer and provide evidence that you came to a
simmilar one usually by providing a screenshot.  The lab should be one
document. It should be called Lab<number><sub>firstName</sub><sub>lastName.pdf</sub>.
Thank you.

# Prerequisties

The course requires background in cryptography, algorithms,
programming and network protocols, particularly TCP/IP. For example, a
project that requires deployment of SNORT to monitor for policy
compliance will require the student to be familiar with various
network protocols. Projects that require students to build
client/server applications will require the use of Python and require
a background in programming.

# ATTENDANCE POLICY

Students enrolled in this course are required to attend all lecture,
recitation and laboratory sessions of the section for which they
registered. (During summer session, two weeks of classes are covered
each calendar week.) Excessive absences (defined above) will result in
a reduction in the grade. Attendance is taken solely from roll sheets
circulated at the beginning and/or end of each session. Lateness or
early departure (resulting in missing no more than 15 minutes of a
session) counts as 1⁄2 absence. Students missing more than 15 minutes
of a session will be counted as absent. If the college is officially
closed, thereby canceling all classes, an announcement will be found
on 237-8000, and broadcast on AM stations WINS (1010), WOR (710), WCBS
(880), WADD (1280), WMCA (570), WLIB (1190), and WFAS (1230), as well
as FM stations WCBS (101.1) and WBLS (107.5). If a class will be
cancelled for extraordinary circumstances, the instructor will email
an announcement to the preferred email of enrolled students as soon as
practicable. This has not happened in recent memory.

# ACTIVE COLLEGE E-MAIL

Students are expected to maintain active and accessible college email
and Blackboard accounts. Blackboard will be used to send emails and
may be used to post announcements, handouts, additional study
materials, text supplements, grades, etc. Use the CUNY Portal Login
page help features for a forgotten username or password, or contact
DoIT, 212-237-8200 for other help. Verify your CUNY email address is
correctly listed on Blackboard and keep the mailbox from filling up
and refusing delivery, because you will be responsible for the
contents of any email sent to that account. 

When emailing instructors for this course, start the email’s subject
line with the course and section number (e.g., CSCI 372-01) followed
by a brief description. Include your full name in the body of every
email. Emails that do not contain these descriptive details may be
considered spam, and remain unopened and unanswered. Students are
expected to check email regularly.

# ADA STATEMENT: STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES

Qualified students with disabilities will be provided reasonable
academic accommodations if determined appropriate by the Office of
Accessibility Services (OAS), 212- 237-8031, located in room
L.66.00. Prior to granting disability accommodations, verification of
a student’s eligibility must be timely received from OAS by the math
department chairman, Professor Douglas Salane (dsalane@jjay.cuny.edu),
and the instructor, from the OAS. It is the student’s responsibility
to initiate contact with the OAS and to follow the established
procedures for having the accommodation notice sent to both the course
coordinator and the instructor.

# ACADEMIC INTEGRITY:

Students who succeed in this course and graduate with a degree in
Computer Science and Information Security may be hired by government
or private agencies to analyze evidence and testify in a court of law,
placing in jeopardy another person’s reputation and/or
liberty. Dishonesty of any kind cannot and will not be
tolerated. Students are expected to become thoroughly aware of the
“John Jay College Policy on Academic Integrity” (and other college
policies), available on the college’s Web site. Sanctions to the
extent permitted by the policy will be imposed and any written
material submitted may be transmitted by the instructor to
Turnitin.com (or equivalent service) to help analyze its
originality. See the Undergraduate Bulletin for the College’s Policy
on Plagiarism and Cheating, which will be strictly
enforced. Plagiarism includes copying ASA or homework answers from
others. You are required to do your own work to avoid severe grade and
disciplinary penalties. The College subscribes to Turnitin.com and
Blackboard has a similar module called SafeAssign. Any written
assignments submitted may be subject to evaluation by these or similar
programs.