# Contact

<table border="2" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="6" rules="groups" frame="hsides">


<colgroup>
<col  class="left" />

<col  class="left" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td class="left">Instructor</td>
<td class="left">Evan Misshula</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Office</td>
<td class="left">6.63.30</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Office Hours</td>
<td class="left">W 1:30-3:30pm</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">E-mail</td>
<td class="left">emisshula@jjay.cuny.edu</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# Instructor

I am a PhD Student in Criminal Justice.  I study policing, data mining
and internet security. I am interested in social and economic
mobility. I am a substitute lecturer in the Department of Math and
Computer Science for the 2015-2016 academic year.  I am an
undergraduate adviser for the [Computer Science and Information
Security BS degree](http://www.jjay.cuny.edu/computer-science-and-information-security-bs) and the advisor for the John Jay Computer Science
club.

# Course objectives

1.  The course endeavors to develop critical thinking and geometric
    intuition from an algebraic perspective.  Specifically, the
    principal goals are:
2.  To place previously learned concepts on a more rigorous foundation;
3.  To develop geometric intuition through the use of coordinate
    transformations applied to a small collection of elementary
    functions;
4.  To foster critical thinking by studying the solutions of polynomial
    equations in one variable;
5.  To promote and appreciate mathematics as a discipline and
    understanding its applications beyond the borders of the classroom;
6.  To engage in articulate expression through effective writing and
    speaking, to think critically and creatively, to locate, evaluate,
    and use information effectively and to integrate different areas of
    knowledge and view ideas from multiple perspectives; and
7.  To introduce students to the varied methods used to create
    knowledge, and they acquaint students with major questions and
    principles of the field.
8.  At the end of the semester, you should be able to:
9.  Solve simple polynomial equations;
10. Graph elementary functions using their natural parameters;
11. Formulate and solve simple models derived from contemporary
    applications; and
12. Quantitatively express and describe real world phenomena.

# Textbook and homework

Textbook: Bundle: Algebra and Trigonometry, 4th + Enhanced Web Assign
Printed Access Card for Pre-Calculus & College Algebra, Single-Term
Courses

AUTHORS: Stewart/Redlin/Watson 
ISBN-10: 1-305-71978-6 
ISBN-13: 978-1-305-71978-1 
Below is the link for the MAT 105 Microsite:
<http://www.cengagebrain.com/course/1-1RE3VR3>
Title and section of the class: MAT 105 Section 54
Start/End dates of your course:  8/26/15 through 12/23/15
Class Key: jjay.cuny 4121 1669
Text in use: Algebra and Trigonometry - 4e
<http://www.webassign.net/>
<http://www.webassign.net/manual/WA_Student_Quick_Start.pdf>

Online homework assignment for each lecture will be posted on Web
Assign. In the case of extenuating circumstances, you may request an
extension of the due date for any homework assignment.  Reasonable
requests will be granted.  However, only one extension per assignment
will be allowed.  Therefore, you need to budget your time carefully to
avoid a tardy submission once an extension has been granted.  

## Calculators

The use of calculators will be highly regulated in class and not
permitted for use on exams.

# Grading Policy

There will be three (3) departmental tests on the dates set forth in
the reading outline (Dates subject to change), as well as a two-hour
departmental final examination at the end of the semester. The
departmental exams will be cumulative in nature. In addition, on-line
(electronic) homework is assigned frequently. Your grade is based upon
the best three test grades the final examination, the on-line
homework.

# Grading rubric

-   Your grade will be determined by your performance on weekly online
    homework assignments, three tests, and one final exam. The rubric
    appears below.

-   Value:

<table border="2" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="6" rules="groups" frame="hsides">


<colgroup>
<col  class="left" />

<col  class="right" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td class="left">Three Exams (15%) each</td>
<td class="right">45%</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Final Examination</td>
<td class="right">30%</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Electronic Homework</td>
<td class="right">25%</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Total:</td>
<td class="right">100%</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

-   Outcome:

<table border="2" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="6" rules="groups" frame="hsides">


<colgroup>
<col  class="left" />

<col  class="left" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td class="left">A</td>
<td class="left">93.0 - 100</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">A-</td>
<td class="left">90.0 - 92.9</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">B+</td>
<td class="left">87.1 - 89.9</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">B</td>
<td class="left">83.0 - 87.0</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">B-</td>
<td class="left">80.0-  82.9</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">C+</td>
<td class="left">77.1-  79.9</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">C</td>
<td class="left">73.0 - 77.0</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">C-</td>
<td class="left">70.0 – 72.9</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">D+</td>
<td class="left">67.1 – 69.9</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">D</td>
<td class="left">63.0 – 67.0</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">D-</td>
<td class="left">60.0 - 62.9</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# Attendance, Lateness, and Decorum

Attendance is required. Students having more than four (4) unexcused
absences may receive the grade of “F” for the course.  Medical reasons
and extenuating family circumstances are the only acceptable excuses
for absence.  You are also required to be punctual.  Attendance can be
taken 10 minutes after the start of the period.

MAT 105 is a three (3) credit course which means that you are expected
to devote nine (9) hours per week to it; three hours are spent in
class and the balance of six (6) hours is to be applied to homework
and study outside of class time.  (Please note that these are minimum
recommendations to fulfill New York State higher education
requirements.)

The course material is best learned by engaging word problems.
Therefore, it is imperative that you plan your study time to allow for
completion of the day’s homework assignment before the subsequent
class.  If you are unavoidably absent, you are still expected to do
the assigned reading as per the reading outline below.

# Academic Support (Tutoring)

-   How do you get the most out of a tutoring session?
    1.  Start right away.  Students who begin tutoring from the beginning
        of the semester typically do better than those who wait.
    2.  Book your appointments early.  During peak times, you may need to
        book at least a week in advance to get the times you want.
    3.  Come prepared.  Please bring your class notes and textbook.  Look
        over the reading and try the problems.  If you can, bring a list
        of specific questions.  The more you prepare, the more you will
        get out of the session.
    4.  If you miss a class, please get notes from a classmate before
        your session.  Tutoring is not a substitute for attending class.
    5.  If you are repeating the course (previous grade of “F” or “W”),
        you are eligible to participate in the Math Advancement Program
        (MAP), which provides weekly one-on-one tutoring with an
        experienced tutor.  Please see Ms. Michele Doney in Suite
        01.94.00-07 for details.

## Tutoring contact information

Mathematics & Science Resource Center
Contact Person: Michele Doney, Coordinator 
Suite 01.94.00-07 NB
646.557.4635 & 212.237.8019
Email: msrc@jjay.cuny.edu
Website: <http://www.jjay.cuny.edu/academics/592.php>

# Seek Information

1.  Start right away.  Students who begin tutoring from the beginning
    of the semester typically do better than those who wait.
2.  Book your appointments early.  During peak times, you may need to
    book at least a week in advance to get the times you want.
3.  Come prepared.  Bring your class notes and textbook.  Look over the
    readings and try the problems.  If you can, bring a list of
    specific questions.  The more you prepare, the more you will get
    out of the session.
4.  If you miss a class, get notes from a classmate before your
    session.  Tutoring is not a substitute for attending class.

## Seek contact information

If you are a SEEK student, you have access to an additional resource
of the SEEK Mathematics Support Program:

Perry Ellis Sutton SEEK Mathematics Program
Contact Person: Mark Frances, Coordinator 
North Hall, Room 3119
212.393.6389
Email: mfrancis@jjay.cuny.edu

# ADA STATEMENT: STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES

Qualified students with disabilities will be provided reasonable
academic accommodations if determined appropriate by the Office of
Accessibility Services (OAS), 212- 237-8031, located in room
L.66.00. Prior to granting disability accommodations, verification of
a student’s eligibility must be timely received from OAS by the course
coordinator,

Rita Shamuilova
Math Foundation & Quantitative Reasoning Program
Department of Mathematics and Computer Science
New Building 6.63.04
John Jay College of Criminal Justice
524 West 59th street
New York City 10019
T. 212-237-8848
rshamuilova@jjay.cuny.edu

# Schedule

<table border="2" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="6" rules="groups" frame="hsides">


<colgroup>
<col  class="left" />

<col  class="left" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td class="left">Integer Exponents. Rational Exponents. Radicals</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-08-27 Thu&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Algebraic Expression. Factoring.</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-09-01 Tue&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Rational Expressions</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-09-03 Thu&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Solving Basic Equations.</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-09-08 Tue&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Quadratic Equations and Complex Numbers</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-09-10 Thu&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Other Types of Equations</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-09-15 Tue&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Inequalities</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-09-17 Thu&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Absolute Value Equations and Inequalities</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-09-19 Sat&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Review For Exam 1</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-09-22 Tue&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Exam 1 (Based on lectures 1-9)</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-09-24 Thu&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Coordinate Plane. Distance and Midpoint Formulas</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-09-29 Tue&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Lines</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-10-01 Thu&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Circles</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-10-06 Tue&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">What is a Function? Evaluation - Graphs Piece - Wise.</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-10-08 Thu&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Getting Information from the Graph of  Function:</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-10-13 Tue&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Review for Exam 2</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-10-15 Thu&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Exam 2 (Based on lectures 11-16)</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-10-20 Tue&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Combining Functions</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-10-22 Thu&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Quadratic Functions</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-10-27 Tue&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Polynomial Functions and their Graphs.</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-10-29 Thu&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Dividing Polynomials. Real Zeroes of Polynomials</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-11-03 Tue&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Complex Zeroes and the Fundamental Theorem of Algebra.</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-11-05 Thu&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Rational Functions</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-11-10 Tue&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Review Exam 3</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-11-12 Thu&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td class="left">Exam 3</td>
<td class="left"><span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">&lt;2015-11-17 Tue&gt;</span></span></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

# pdf version

[syllabus](../images/ma105.pdf)